Lady Circe spake unto me, saying: "On the other part are two rocks,
whereof the one reaches with sharp peak to the wide heaven, and a dark
cloud encompasses it; this never streams away, and there is no clear
air about the peak neither in summer nor in harvest tide. No mortal
man may scale it or set foot thereon, not though he had twenty hands
and feet. For the rock is smooth, and sheer, as it were polished. And
in the midst of the cliff is a dim cave turned to Erebus, towards the
place of darkness, whereby ye shall even steer your hollow ship, noble
Odysseus. Not with an arrow from a bow might a man in his strength
reach from his hollow ship into that deep cave. And therein dwelleth
Scylla, yelping terribly. Her voice indeed is no greater than the
voice of a new-born whelp, but a dreadful monster is she, nor would
any look on her gladly, not if it were a god that met her. Verily she
hath twelve feet all dangling down; and six necks exceeding long, and
on each a hideous head, and therein three rows of teeth set thick and
close, full of black death. Up to her middle is she sunk far down in
the hollow cave, but forth she holds her heads from the dreadful gulf,
and there she fishes, swooping round the rock, for dolphins or
sea-dogs, or whatso greater beast she may anywhere take, whereof the
deep-voiced Amphitrite feeds countless flocks. Thereby no sailors
boast that they have fled scatheless ever with their ship, for with
each head she carries off a man, whom she hath snatched from out the
dark-prowed ship.

"But that other cliff, Odysseus, thou shalt note, lying lower, hard by
the first: thou couldest send an arrow across. And thereon is a great
fig-tree growing, in fullest leaf, and beneath it mighty Charybdis
sucks down black water, for thrice a day she spouts it forth, and
thrice a day she sucks it down in terrible wise. Never mayest thou be
there when she sucks the water, for none might save thee then from thy
bane, not even the Earth-Shaker! But take heed and swiftly drawing
nigh to Scylla's rock drive the ship past, since of a truth it is far
better to mourn six of thy company in the ship, than all in the
selfsame hour."

"So I spake, and quickly they [the men] hearkened to my words. But of
Scylla I told them nothing more, a bane none might deal with, lest
haply my company should cease from rowing for fear, and hide them in
the hold. In that same hour I suffered myself to forget the hard
behest of Circe, in that she bade me in nowise be armed; but I did on
my glorious harness and caught up two long lances in my hands, and
went on the decking of the prow, for thence methought that Scylla of
the rock would first be seen, who was to bring woe on my company. Yet
could I not spy her anywhere, and my eyes waxed weary for gazing all
about toward the darkness of the rock.

"Next we began to sail up the narrow strait lamenting. For on the one
hand lay Scylla, and on the other mighty Charybdis in terrible wise
sucked down the salt sea water. As often as she belched it forth, like
a cauldron on a great fire she would seethe up through all her
troubled deeps, and overhead the spray fell on the tops of either
cliff. But oft as she gulped down the salt sea water, within she was
all plain to see through her troubled deeps, and the rock around
roared horribly and beneath the earth was manifest swart with sand,
and pale fear gat hold on my men. Toward her, then, we looked fearing
destruction; but Scylla meanwhile caught from out my hollow ship six
of my company, the hardiest of their hands and the chief in might. And
looking into the swift ship to find my men, even then I marked their
feet and hands as they were lifted on high, and they cried aloud in
their agony, and called me by my name for that last time of all. Even
as when a fisher on some head-land lets down with a long rod his baits
for a snare to the little fishes below, casting into the deep the horn
of an ox of the homestead, and as he catches each flings it writhing
ashore, so writhing were they borne upward to the cliff. And there she
devoured them shrieking in her gates, they stretching forth their
hands to me in the dread death-struggle. And the most pitiful thing
was this that mine eyes have seen of all my travail in searching out
the paths of the sea."
